Add: An introductory guide for text generation (#21090)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/generation_strategies.mdx

<!--Copyright 2020 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->
# Text Generation Strategies

Text generation is essential to many NLP tasks, such as open-ended text generation, summarization,
translation, and more. It also plays a role in a variety of mixed-modality applications that have text as an output, e.g.
speech-to-text, vision-to-text, etc. Some of the models that can generate text in an auto-regressive manner include

> GPT2, XLNet, OpenAi-GPT, CTRL, TransformXL, XLM, Bart, and T5. You can find examples of using the `generate()` method to produce

Author: @sgugger I could either 
a) Bart and T5 from the sentence, or
b) remove the words "auto-regressive", and then add more models (e.g. speech to text)

Which option would you prefer?

However, it can have a noticeable impact on the quality of the generated output. It can help reduce repetition in the text
and make it more coherent.

This guide describes:
* default generation configuration
* common decoding strategies and their main parameters
* saving and sharing custom generation configurations with your fine-tuned model on 🤗 Hub

## Default text generation configuration

A decoding strategy for a model is defined in its generation configuration. When using pre-trained models for inference
within a `pipeline()`, the models call the `PreTrainedModel.generate()` method that applies a default generation
configuration under the hood. The default configuration is also used when no custom configuration has been saved with
the model.

When you load a model explicitly, you can inspect the generation configuration that comes with it through
 `model.generation_config`:

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("distilgpt2")
>>> model.generation_config
GenerationConfig {
  "_from_model_config": true,
  "bos_token_id": 50256,
  "eos_token_id": 50256,
  "transformers_version": "4.26.0.dev0"

> }

Author: Fixed in 8ec3e7401b778bc9efedce240ac68db46bf62071

```

> If a model has any modified values in the generation configuration, you can review them at this point. Note, however,

Author: I'll rephrase. I meant that when a config if printed out, only modified values are printed.

that the default values are not displayed.

The default generation configuration limits the size of the output combined with the input prompt to a maximum of 20
tokens to avoid running into resource limitations. And the default decoding strategy is greedy search.
This is the simplest decoding strategy that picks a token with the highest probability as the next token. For many tasks
and small output sizes this works well. However, when used to generate longer outputs, greedy search can start
producing highly repetitive results.

## Customize text generation

You can override any `generation_config` by passing the parameters and their values directly to the generate() method,
e.g. `my_model.generate(inputs, num_beams=4, do_sample=True)`.

Even if the default decoding strategy mostly works for your task, you can still tweak a few things. Some of the
commonly adjusted parameters include:

- `max_new_tokens`: the maximum number of tokens to generate. In other words, the size of the output sequence, not
including the tokens in the prompt.

> - `max_length`: similar to `max_new_tokens`, this parameter limits the size of the generated output, however, it takes

Author: I am not sure about it, these seem rather straightforward to understand, plus I am using max_new_tokens in other examples where I need to generate a longer output.

> - `max_length`: similar to `max_new_tokens`, this parameter limits the size of the generated output, however, it takes

Author: According to @gante `max_length` will be deprecated, so I will remove it from here. But I will add `num_return_sequences`.

beam search. This strategy evaluates several hypotheses at each time step and eventually chooses the hypothesis that
has the overall highest probability for the entire sequence. This has the advantage of identifying high-probability
sequences that start with a lower probability initial tokens and would've been ignored by the greedy search.
- `do_sample`: If set to `True`, this parameter enables such decoding strategies as multinomial sampling, beam-search
multinomial sampling, Top-K sampling and Top-p sampling. All these strategies select the next token from the probability
distribution over the entire vocabulary with various strategy-specific adjustments.

## Decoding strategies

Certain combinations of the `generate()` parameters, and ultimately `generation_config`, can be used to enable specific
decoding strategies. If you are new to this concept, we recommend reading [this blog post that illustrates how common decoding strategies work](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate).

Here, we'll show what parameters control some of the strategies, and illustrate how you can use them.

### Greedy Search

> Greedy search is the default decoding strategy. For generate() method to use it, `num_beams` has to be set to 1, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`generate`] uses greedy search decoding by default so you don't have to pass any parameters to enable it. This means the parameters `num_beams` is set to 1 and `do_sample=False`.
```

> Greedy search is the default decoding strategy. For generate() method to use it, `num_beams` has to be set to 1, and

Author: Wouldn't have guessed that, thanks!

`do_sample=False`. Because it is a default strategy, you do not have to pass any parameters to `generate()` method to enable it.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

>>> prompt = "I look forward to"
>>> checkpoint = "distilgpt2"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids)
>>> tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs, skip_special_tokens=True)
['I look forward to seeing you all again!\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n']
```

> ### Contrastive Search

Reviewer: Add a blank line after the header

```suggestion
### Contrastive search
```

> The Contrastive search decoding strategy was proposed in the 2022 paper [A Contrastive Framework for Neural Text Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.06417).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contrastive search decoding strategy was proposed in the 2022 paper [A Contrastive Framework for Neural Text Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.06417).
```

> The Contrastive search decoding strategy was proposed in the 2022 paper <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.06417">"A Contrastive Framework for Neural Text Generation"</a>.

Author: I initially used markdown, but it wasn't rendering for some reason. Maybe the quotation marks were the issue. I'll switch back to markdown, and hopefully, it will render.

It demonstrates superior results for generating non-repetitive yet coherent long outputs. To learn how contrastive search
works, check out [this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/introducing-csearch).

> The two main parameters that enable and control the behavior of the contrastive search are `penalty_alpha` and `top_k`:

Reviewer: It may be nice to add links to the two parameters so users can click on it and learn what they are/do.

```suggestion
The two main parameters that enable and control the behavior of contrastive search are `penalty_alpha` and `top_k`:
```

risk of repetition.

To enable multinomial sampling set `do_sample=True`.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM

>>> checkpoint = "gpt2-large"
>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> prompt = "Today was an amazing day because"
>>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

>>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, do_sample=True, max_new_tokens=100)
>>> tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs, skip_special_tokens=True)
['Today was an amazing day because we are now in the final stages of our trip to New York City which was very tough. \
It is a difficult schedule and a challenging part of the year but still worth it. I have been taking things easier and \
I feel stronger and more motivated to be out there on their tour. Hopefully, that experience is going to help them with \
their upcoming events which are currently scheduled in Australia.\n\nWe love that they are here. They want to make a \
name for themselves and become famous for what they']
```

### Beam-search decoding

> As opposed to the greedy search, beam search decoding keeps several hypotheses at each time step and eventually chooses

Reviewer: Just to mix things up a little :)

```suggestion
Unlike greedy search, beam-search decoding keeps several hypotheses at each time step and eventually chooses
```

the hypothesis that has the overall highest probability for the entire sequence. This has the advantage of identifying high-probability

> sequences that start with a lower probability initial tokens and would've been ignored by the greedy search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sequences that start with lower probability initial tokens and would've been ignored by the greedy search.
```

> To enable this decoding strategy, specify the `num_beams` that is greater than 1.

Reviewer: Maybe clarify what exactly the number of beams do, something like:

```suggestion
To enable this decoding strategy, specify `num_beams` greater than 1. The number of beams specified corresponds to how many time-steps to look ahead.
```

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

>>> prompt = "It is astonishing how one can"
>>> checkpoint = "gpt2-medium"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, num_beams=5, max_new_tokens=50)
>>> tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs, skip_special_tokens=True)
['It is astonishing how one can have such a profound impact on the lives of so many people in such a short period of \
time."\n\nHe added: "I am very proud of the work I have been able to do in the last few years.\n\n"I have']
```

### Beam-search multinomial sampling
As the name implies, this decoding strategy combines beam search with multinomial sampling. You need to specify

> the `num_beams` that is greater than 1, and set `do_sample=True` to use this decoding strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `num_beams` greater than 1, and set `do_sample=True` to use this decoding strategy.
```

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM

>>> prompt = "translate English to German: The house is wonderful."
>>> checkpoint = "t5-small"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

>>> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, num_beams=5, do_sample=True)
>>> tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True)
'Das Haus ist wunderbar.'
```

### Diverse beam search decoding

> The Diverse beam search decoding strategy is an extension of the beam search strategy that allows to generate a more diverse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diverse beam search decoding strategy is an extension of the beam search strategy that allows for generating a more diverse
```

set of beam sequences to choose from. To learn how it works, refer to [Diverse Beam Search: Decoding Diverse Solutions from Neural Sequence Models](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.02424.pdf).

> The Diverse Beam Search approach has two main parameters: `num_beams` and `num_beam_groups`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach has two main parameters: `num_beams` and `num_beam_groups`.
```

>>> scientific principles. When we bring all these separate  principles together, we can \
>>> create a design system that both looks at whole systems, the parts that these systems \
>>> consist of, and how those parts interact with each other to create a complex, dynamic, \
>>> living system. Each design principle serves as a tool that allows us to integrate all \
>>> the separate parts of a design, referred to as elements, into a functional, synergistic, \
>>> whole system, where the elements harmoniously interact and work together in the most \
>>> efficient way possible."

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids

>>> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, num_beams=5, num_beam_groups=5, max_new_tokens=30)
>>> tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True)
'The Design Principles are a set of universal design principles that can be applied to any location, climate and culture, and they allow us to design the most efficient and sustainable human habitation and food production systems.'
```

> This guide illustrates the main parameters that enable various decoding strategies. More advanced parameters exist for the
> generate() method, which give you even further control over the generate() method's behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide illustrates the main parameters that enable various decoding strategies. More advanced parameters exist for the
[`generate`] method, which gives you even further control over the [`generate`] method's behavior.
```

For the complete list of the available parameters, refer to the [API documentation](./main_classes/text_generation.mdx).

## Save a custom decoding strategy with your model

> If you would like to share your fine-tuned model with a specific generation configuration, you can do so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to share your fine-tuned model with a specific generation configuration, you can:
```

> * Create a `GenerationConfig` class instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a [`GenerationConfig`] class instance
```

* Specify the decoding strategy parameters

> * Save your generation configuration with `save_pretrained`, making sure to leave its `config_file_name` argument empty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Save your generation configuration with [`GenerationConfig.save_pretrained`], making sure to leave its `config_file_name` argument empty
```

* Set `push_to_hub` to `True` to upload your config to the model's repo

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, GenerationConfig

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("my_account/my_model")
>>> generation_config = GenerationConfig(
...     max_new_tokens=50, do_sample=True, top_k=50, eos_token_id=model.config.eos_token_id
... )
>>> generation_config.save_pretrained("my_account/my_model", push_to_hub=True)
```

> You can also store several generation parametrizations in a single directory, making use of the `config_file_name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also store several generation parameters in a single directory, making use of the `config_file_name`
```

Author: I think it should've been "several generation configurations".

> argument in `save_pretrained`. You can later instantiate them with `from_pretrained`. This is useful if you want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
argument in [`GenerationConfig.save_pretrained`]. You can later instantiate them with [`GenerationConfig.from_pretrained`]. This is useful if you want to
```

store several generation configurations for a single model (e.g. one for creative text generation with sampling, and

> other for summarization with beam search). You must have the right Hub permissions to add configuration files to a model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one for summarization with beam search). You must have the right Hub permissions to add configuration files to a model.
```

> other for summarization with beam search). You must have the right Hub permissions to add configuration files to a model.

Reviewer 2: That's if you want to push them to the Hub, which is not shown here. So maybe show an example of this? Or remove the sentence otherwise.

Author: I am not sure I understand. There's a `push_to_hub=True` in the `save_pretrained`. Doesn't this upload the config to Hub?

Reviewer 2: Ah, I missed it! All good, thanks!

> <!--Copyright 2020 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
```

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Text generation strategies

Text generation is essential to many NLP tasks, such as open-ended text generation, summarization, translation, and
more. It also plays a role in a variety of mixed-modality applications that have text as an output like speech-to-text
and vision-to-text. Some of the models that can generate text include
GPT2, XLNet, OpenAI GPT, CTRL, TransformerXL, XLM, Bart, T5, GIT, Whisper.

Check out a few examples that use [`~transformers.generation_utils.GenerationMixin.generate`] method to produce
text outputs for different tasks:
* [Text summarization](./tasks/summarization#inference)
* [Image captioning](./model_doc/git#transformers.GitForCausalLM.forward.example)
* [Audio transcription](./model_doc/whisper#transformers.WhisperForConditionalGeneration.forward.example)

Note that the inputs to the generate method depend on the model's modality. They can be `input_ids` for text, `input_values`

> or `input_features` for speech and `pixel_values` for computer vision. When in doubt, refer to the model's documentation.

Reviewer 3: I would add here a sentence related to the other suggested changes I've made. 

Something like: "Please note that our models' preprocessor classes (such as the `AutoTokenizer` or the `AutoProcessor`) may return more than one model input when called, in which case you should feed them all to `generate()`".

Author: Modified in 50146bfd463d4d8bd94887658329b208c2f0e30f

 `model.generation_config`:

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("distilgpt2")
>>> model.generation_config
GenerationConfig {
    "_from_model_config": true,
    "bos_token_id": 50256,
    "eos_token_id": 50256,
    "transformers_version": "4.26.0.dev0"
}
```

Printing out the `model.generation_config` reveals only the values that are different from the default generation
configuration, and does not list any of the default values.

The default generation configuration limits the size of the output combined with the input prompt to a maximum of 20
tokens to avoid running into resource limitations. The default decoding strategy is greedy search, which is the simplest decoding strategy that picks a token with the highest probability as the next token. For many tasks
and small output sizes this works well. However, when used to generate longer outputs, greedy search can start
producing highly repetitive results.

## Customize text generation

You can override any `generation_config` by passing the parameters and their values directly to the [`generate`] method:

```python

> >>> my_model.generate(inputs, num_beams=4, do_sample=True)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> my_model.generate(**inputs, num_beams=4, do_sample=True)
```

In all examples, I'm going to ask to change the first argument to `generate` from `inputs` (a single tensor) to `**inputs` (an unpacked dictionary of tensors), or similar.

This is because the tokenizer/preprocessor may prepare more than one input to the model -- for instance, in NLP models, the tokenizer produces at least the input tokens and the attention mask. While `generate` often works well without these secondary inputs, it has to make assumptions about them (and fails sometimes). Since we are writing these amazing docs from scratch, we can take the opportunity to guide the users towards a better use of generate 🤗 

I've double-checked the stand-alone examples and confirmed that they work after the change.

Author: Thanks a ton for the detailed explanation! I appreciate it!

the decoding strategies that support multiple sequence candidates, e.g. variations of beam search and sampling. Decoding
strategies like greedy search and contrastive search return a single output sequence.

## Decoding strategies

Certain combinations of the `generate()` parameters, and ultimately `generation_config`, can be used to enable specific
decoding strategies. If you are new to this concept, we recommend reading [this blog post that illustrates how common decoding strategies work](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate).

Here, we'll show some of the parameters that control the decoding strategies and illustrate how you can use them.

### Greedy Search

[`generate`] uses greedy search decoding by default so you don't have to pass any parameters to enable it. This means the parameters `num_beams` is set to 1 and `do_sample=False`.
`do_sample=False`. Because it is a default strategy, you do not have to pass any parameters to `generate()` method to enable it.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

>>> prompt = "I look forward to"
>>> checkpoint = "distilgpt2"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

> >>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
> 
> >>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
> >>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs)
```

>>> tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs, skip_special_tokens=True)
['I look forward to seeing you all again!\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n']
```

### Contrastive search

The contrastive search decoding strategy was proposed in the 2022 paper [A Contrastive Framework for Neural Text Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.06417).
It demonstrates superior results for generating non-repetitive yet coherent long outputs. To learn how contrastive search
works, check out [this blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/introducing-csearch).
The two main parameters that enable and control the behavior of contrastive search are `penalty_alpha` and `top_k`:

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM

>>> checkpoint = "gpt2-large"
>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> prompt = "Hugging Face Company is"

> >>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
> 
> >>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, penalty_alpha=0.6, top_k=4, max_new_tokens=100)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, penalty_alpha=0.6, top_k=4, max_new_tokens=100)
```

>>> tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs, skip_special_tokens=True)
['Hugging Face Company is a family owned and operated business. \
We pride ourselves on being the best in the business and our customer service is second to none.\
\n\nIf you have any questions about our products or services, feel free to contact us at any time.\
 We look forward to hearing from you!']
```

### Multinomial sampling

As opposed to greedy search that always chooses a token with the highest probability as the
next token, multinomial sampling randomly selects the next token based on the probability distribution over the entire
vocabulary given by the model. Every token with a non-zero probability has a chance of being selected, thus reducing the
risk of repetition.

To enable multinomial sampling set `do_sample=True`.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM

>>> checkpoint = "gpt2-large"
>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> prompt = "Today was an amazing day because"

> >>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
> 
> >>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, do_sample=True, max_new_tokens=100)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, do_sample=True, max_new_tokens=100)
```

It is a difficult schedule and a challenging part of the year but still worth it. I have been taking things easier and \
I feel stronger and more motivated to be out there on their tour. Hopefully, that experience is going to help them with \
their upcoming events which are currently scheduled in Australia.\n\nWe love that they are here. They want to make a \
name for themselves and become famous for what they']
```

### Beam-search decoding

Unlike greedy search, beam-search decoding keeps several hypotheses at each time step and eventually chooses
the hypothesis that has the overall highest probability for the entire sequence. This has the advantage of identifying high-probability
sequences that start with lower probability initial tokens and would've been ignored by the greedy search.

To enable this decoding strategy, specify the `num_beams` (aka number of hypotheses to keep track of) that is greater than 1.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoTokenizer

>>> prompt = "It is astonishing how one can"
>>> checkpoint = "gpt2-medium"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

> >>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
> 
> >>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
> 
> >>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, num_beams=5, max_new_tokens=50)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, num_beams=5, max_new_tokens=50)
```

>>> tokenizer.batch_decode(outputs, skip_special_tokens=True)
['It is astonishing how one can have such a profound impact on the lives of so many people in such a short period of \
time."\n\nHe added: "I am very proud of the work I have been able to do in the last few years.\n\n"I have']
```

### Beam-search multinomial sampling

As the name implies, this decoding strategy combines beam search with multinomial sampling. You need to specify
the `num_beams` greater than 1, and set `do_sample=True` to use this decoding strategy.

```python
>>> from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM

>>> prompt = "translate English to German: The house is wonderful."
>>> checkpoint = "t5-small"

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

> >>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
> 
> >>> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
> 
> >>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, num_beams=5, do_sample=True)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, num_beams=5, do_sample=True)
```

>>> that can be applied to any location, climate and culture, and they allow us to design \
>>> the most efficient and sustainable human habitation and food production systems. \
>>> Permaculture is a design system that encompasses a wide variety of disciplines, such \
>>> as ecology, landscape design, environmental science and energy conservation, and the \
>>> Permaculture design principles are drawn from these various disciplines. Each individual \
>>> design principle itself embodies a complete conceptual framework based on sound \
>>> scientific principles. When we bring all these separate  principles together, we can \
>>> create a design system that both looks at whole systems, the parts that these systems \
>>> consist of, and how those parts interact with each other to create a complex, dynamic, \
>>> living system. Each design principle serves as a tool that allows us to integrate all \
>>> the separate parts of a design, referred to as elements, into a functional, synergistic, \
>>> whole system, where the elements harmoniously interact and work together in the most \
>>> efficient way possible."

>>> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

> >>> input_ids = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt").input_ids
> 
> >>> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)
> 
> >>> outputs = model.generate(input_ids, num_beams=5, num_beam_groups=5, max_new_tokens=30)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>>> inputs = tokenizer(prompt, return_tensors="pt")

>>> model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint)

>>> outputs = model.generate(**inputs, num_beams=5, num_beam_groups=5, max_new_tokens=30)
```

>>> tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True)
'The Design Principles are a set of universal design principles that can be applied to any location, climate and culture, and they allow us to design the most efficient and sustainable human habitation and food production systems.'
```

This guide illustrates the main parameters that enable various decoding strategies. More advanced parameters exist for the
[`generate`] method, which gives you even further control over the [`generate`] method's behavior.
For the complete list of the available parameters, refer to the [API documentation](./main_classes/text_generation.mdx).

> ## Save a custom decoding strategy with your model

Reviewer 3: Do you think it would make sense to move this to before "## Decoding strategies"? i.e. shape the docs to first show how to manipulate generate in general, then dive into its options.

I'm concerned users will miss this new functionality (because it's at the bottom), especially with the example removal in #21112

Author: Sure, folks seem to agree that your suggested order would be better. I moved it up, before the ## decoding strategies, in 50146bfd463d4d8bd94887658329b208c2f0e30f

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Text generation strategies

Text generation is essential to many NLP tasks, such as open-ended text generation, summarization, translation, and
more. It also plays a role in a variety of mixed-modality applications that have text as an output like speech-to-text
and vision-to-text. Some of the models that can generate text include
GPT2, XLNet, OpenAI GPT, CTRL, TransformerXL, XLM, Bart, T5, GIT, Whisper.

Check out a few examples that use [`~transformers.generation_utils.GenerationMixin.generate`] method to produce
text outputs for different tasks:
* [Text summarization](./tasks/summarization#inference)
* [Image captioning](./model_doc/git#transformers.GitForCausalLM.forward.example)
* [Audio transcription](./model_doc/whisper#transformers.WhisperForConditionalGeneration.forward.example)

Note that the inputs to the generate method depend on the model's modality:
* `input_ids` for the decoder-only models

> * `input_ids`, `input_values`, `input_features`, or `pixel_values` for the encoder-decoder models

Reviewer 2: This is not in link with the previous sentence. You should say it's `input_ids` for text, `input_values` or `input_features` for speech and `pixel_values` for vision. Decoder-only model that can generate are necessarily text models, but I don't think this is the right way to explain this.

> In some cases, such as visual question answering, the inputs should have both `pixel_values` and `input_ids`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe tell the user to look at the documentation of their specific model in case of doubt? This seems pretty niche for this generic guide.
